In this demonstration you will learn how to create a new local Git repository.
Let's switch to Visual Studio.
When you start Visual Studio 2019, you will see this start window.
From here, you can open your recent solutions,
you can clone or check out code,
you can open an existing project or solution or a folder,
and you can also create a new project.
But in this clip, I don't want to start with existing code.
Instead,
I want to show you how to create a new Git repository with Visual Studio.
So let's click here on Continue without code to open up Visual Studio 2019.
To work with Git in Visual Studio, you use the Team Explorer.
You can open up Team Explorer via the View menu.
So here you see Team Explorer.
Let's click it.
Now you are here on the Connect page of Team Explorer,
and you can see you can manage here the local Git repositories.
When you click on this little house,
you can navigate to the home page of Team Explorer.
From here, you can navigate to other pages like Changes, Branches, and Sync.
So you can click, for example, on Changes, then you are on the Changes page.
Let's click again on the house to navigate to the Home page.
You can also use this drop-down here to navigate to the
different pages of Team Explorer.
You can navigate to the Connect page by clicking on this little plug here.
So when I click it, we are, again, on the page that you have seen before.
Now let's just go to the Home page for a minute.
If your Team Explorer doesn't look like this,
you might not have selected Git as a source control plug-in in Visual Studio.
Let's go to Tools, Options, and let's search here for Source Control.
Let's click on Source Control,
and here you see the Current source control plug-in.
When I move this to the left and I select here
Visual Studio Team Foundation Server, you can see that the Team Explorer changes.
So let's make sure that you have selected here Git to see exactly what I see.
Before we create a new repository, let's check our Git settings.
To do this, let's navigate here to the Settings page.
Here you can configure the global settings from the Git
config file of your user directory.
So when I click this, you can see here User Name and Email Address.
As you know,
the user name and the email address are part of every commit that you do in Git.
Here you find also Visual Studio-specific settings like
this Default Repository Location.
Now let's create a local repository.
Let's navigate to the Connect page.
Instead of using the plug, let's use, this time, the drop-down.
Let's select here Projects, and here you can select Manage Connections.
Now you can click here on New to create a new local repository.
Let's cancel this.
In the drop-down under Projects, you see also here New Repository.
When you click this,
Team Explorer goes also to the Connect page and it just opens up
this little view to create a new repository.
So let's do this, and you see we are on the same page,
and now just this little view to create a repository is opened up.
So now let's enter a name for the repository.
Let's call it WiredBrainCoffee.ShopInfoTool, and let's click the Create button.
Now the repository was created.
Let's right-click it and let's take a look at it in File Explorer.
Here you can see the hidden .git folder,
which is actually the local Git repository.
Visual Studio has also added the two files, gitattributes and gitignore.
To open this repository in Team Explorer,
you can right-click it and you can select here Open.
Or, alternatively, you can just double-click it.
Now you can see here that the repository is opened.
When you hover over this, you can see the repository name and the path.
When I go back to the Connect page,
you can also see that the repository is now bold
because this repository is opened.
This is important to know if you have multiple local Git repositories here.
Now let's go to the Home page and let's click here on Changes.
As you can see, the two files, gitattributes and gitignore,
are added and staged.
Now let's just enter here a commit message.
Let's just write Add git files, and let's click here on Commit Staged.
Now let's go again to the Home page and let's click here on New
to add a new solution to our new repository.
Let's select the template for a .NET Core console application,
and let's click Next.
Let's call the application WiredBrainCoffee.ShopInfoTool,
and let's click the Create button.
Now you can see the solution appears also here in Team Explorer.
If your repository has multiple solutions,
you can just open them from here by double-clicking them.
The open solution is also displayed in bold.
When I go to the Solution Explorer,
you can also see that we have now opened the WiredBrainCoffee.ShopInfoTool.
Let's change the Console.WriteLine to Wired Brain Coffee - Shop Info Tool!
And let's save this.
Now let's go to Team Explorer, let's click on Changes,
and you see we have added a Program.cs file,
the cs project file, and the solution file.
Let's enter a commit message here, and let's just write Add project,
and let's select here Commit All.
Now everything is committed.
Let's use the drop-down here to navigate to the Branches page.
Here you can see the master branch.
Let's right-click it and then select View History.
Here you can see the two commits, Add git files and Add project.
You can also switch here to a simple view that shows you the
commits in a simple list and not as a graph.
Alright, now you saw how to create a new,
empty Git repository with Visual Studio and how to add a solution to it.
In the next clip, you will learn how to create a Git repository for an existing solution.